---
description: >-
  Amplified's token model carefully balances the interests of various
  stakeholders to promote the platform's sustainability, decentralization, and
  user incentives.
icon: people-roof
cover: ../.gitbook/assets/Frame 19.png
coverY: 0
---

# aiUSD / aiETH / aiBTC

### **Core Functions**

The aiUSD/aiETH/aiBTC tokens (aiTokens) represents Amplified’s innovative approach to yield-bearing assets, offering multiple essential functions that benefit both the protocol and its users:

* **Value Representation**: This structure ensures that value generated within the protocol is transparently and fairly distributed among its holders.
  * **Direct Ownership Share**: aiToken holders gain a proportional stake in the protocol’s liquidity pools and vault strategies.
  * **Yield Entitlement**: Holders have a claim on the yields generated by the protocol’s staking and DeFi strategies.
  * **Participation Rights**: aiToken enables holders to engage in and benefit from protocol strategies.

### **Value Growth Mechanisms**

aiToken’s value is designed to appreciate through various channels, offering diversified yield sources and maximizing returns:

* **Staking Rewards**: Accumulation of validator rewards from the Ethereum network.
* **DeFi Strategy Earnings**: Gains from advanced DeFi strategies executed within the protocol.
* **Platform Fee Revenue**: A share of the protocol’s fee revenues is distributed to aiToken holders.
* **Re-Staking, Rebalancing, and Compounding**: Additional returns generated through strategic re-staking and automated compounding.

This multi-layered approach to value accrual supports aiToken’s growth potential while diversifying its yield sources, providing a sustainable and robust yield-bearing asset for holders.

### **Liquidity Features**

aiTokens are structured to ensure high capital efficiency and seamless integration within the DeFi ecosystem:

* **Free Trading on Secondary Markets**: aiTokens are freely tradable, giving holders liquidity and flexibility.
* **DeFi Protocol Compatibility**: aiTokens are fully compatible with a range of DeFi protocols, enabling diverse utility and yield opportunities.
* **Deep Liquidity Maintenance**: Amplified actively supports deep liquidity for aiTokens, ensuring market stability.
* **Complete DeFi Composability**: aiTokens integrate smoothly with other DeFi assets, facilitating flexible and composable financial strategies.

These features allow aiToken holders to enjoy both liquidity and yield potential, making it a versatile and valuable asset in the DeFi landscape.
